Create [Concept Entry] SQL Subqueries (#2584)
Codecademy/docs: content/sql/concepts/subqueries/subqueries.md

---
Title: 'SQL Subqueries' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

> Description: 'SQL subqueries are queries that are embedded within another query' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'SQL subqueries are queries that are embedded within another query.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
```

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Subqueries'
  - 'SQLite'
  - 'MySQL'
  - 'PostgreSQL'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
---

**SQL Subqueries** also known as nested queries or inner queries, are queries that are embedded within another query. They allow the retrieval of data from one query and use it as a part of another query. Subqueries provide a powerful mechanism for performing complex database operations.

## Used in Place of a Scalar

> One common use case for subqueries is to replace a scalar value in a query. A scalar subquery returns a single value and can be used in expressions, such as the SELECT list, WHERE clause, or even as a part of an arithmetic operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One common use case for subqueries is to replace a scalar value in a query. A scalar subquery returns a single value and can be used in expressions, such as the `SELECT` list, `WHERE` clause, or even as a part of an arithmetic operation.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
SELECT emp_name, salary
FROM employees
WHERE salary > (SELECT AVG(salary) FROM employees);

> ```

Reviewer: add empty line after the syntax block

> This example retrieves the employee name and salary for those employees whose salary is greater than the average salary calculated using a subquery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example retrieves the employee name and salary for those employees whose salary is greater than the average salary calculated in the subquery.
```

## Used in Place of a Table

> Subqueries can also be used in place of a table to retrieve data. This allows you to perform operations on a subset of data derived from another table or set of tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subqueries can also be used in place of a table to retrieve data. This allows for operations on a subset of data derived from another table or set of tables.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
SELECT salesperson_id, total_sales
FROM (SELECT salesperson_id, SUM(amount) AS total_sales
      FROM sales
      GROUP BY salesperson_id) AS subquery;

> ```

Reviewer: add an empty line after the syntax block

In this example, the subquery calculates the total sales made by each salesperson, and the main query retrieves the salesperson ID and their corresponding total sales.

## Used in a WHERE Clause

> Another common use case for subqueries is to include them in a WHERE clause to filter data based on specific conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another common use case for subqueries is to include them in a `WHERE` clause to filter data based on specific conditions.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
SELECT product_name, price
FROM products
WHERE category_id IN (SELECT category_id FROM categories WHERE category_name = 'Electronics');

> ```

Reviewer: empty line

---
Title: 'SQL Subqueries' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Learn about SQL subqueries and how they can be used in different scenarios.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!

>   - 'SQL'
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
```
We generally do not create subjects for items that already have a topic dedicated to them

Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!

>   - 'Subqueries'
>   - 'Nested queries'
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Subqueries'
  - 'SQLite'
  - 'MySQL'
  - 'PostgreSQL'
```
These tags are typically applied to SQL entries. Also the tags "subqueries" and "nested queries" are redundant. I'd perfer you just keep the tag "subqueries" in this PR.

> CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
>   - 'learn-sql'
>   - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
>   - 'paths/data-science'
>   - 'paths/data-science-foundations'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
```
We generally only have two entries in CatalogContent.

---

> **SQL Subqueries** also known as nested queries or inner queries, are queries that are embedded within another query. They allow you to retrieve data from one query and use it as a part of another query. Subqueries provide a powerful mechanism for performing complex database operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**SQL Subqueries** also known as nested queries or inner queries, are queries that are embedded within another query. They allow the retrieval of data from one query and use it as a part of another query. Subqueries provide a powerful mechanism for performing complex database operations.
```
We avoid the use of first- and second-person pronouns in Docs.
